As a security analyst,
you may be tasked with writing,
customizing, or
testing signatures.
To do this, you'll
use IDS tools.
So in this section, we'll examine
signature syntax and by the end,
you'll be able to
read a signature.
A signature specifies
detection rules.
These rules outline
the types of
network intrusions you
want an IDS to detect.
For example, a signature can
be written to detect and alert
on suspicious traffic attempting
to connect to a port.
Rule language
differs depending on
different network intrusion
detection systems.
The term network intrusion
detection system
is often abbreviated
as the acronym N-I-D-S
and pronounced NIDS.
Generally, NIDS rules
consists of three components:
an action, a header,
and rule options.
Now, let's examine each of
these three components
in more detail.
Typically, the action is
the first item specified
in a signature.
This determines the
action to take if
the rule criteria
matches are met.
Actions differ across
NIDS rule languages,
but some common actions are:
alert, pass, or reject.
Using our example, if a
rule specifies to alert on
suspicious network traffic that
establishes an unusual
connection to a port,
the IDS will inspect
the traffic packets
and send out an alert.
The header defines the
signature's network traffic.
These include
information such as
source and destination
IP addresses,
source and destination ports,
protocols, and
traffic direction.
If we want to
detect an alert on
suspicious traffic
connecting to a port,
we have to first
define the source
of the suspicious
traffic in the header.
Suspicious traffic
can originate from
IP addresses outside
the local network.
It can also use specific
or unusual protocols.
We can specify
external IP addresses
and these protocols
in the header.
Here's an example of how
header information may
appear in a basic rule.
First, we can observe
that the protocol,
TCP, is the first listed
item in the signature.
Next, the source IP address
10.120.170.17 and the
source port number
is specified as being any.
The arrow in the middle
of the signature
indicates the direction
of the network traffic.
So we know it's originating
from the source IP
10.120.170.17 from any port
going to the following
destination
IP address 133.113.202.181
and destination port 80.
The rule options
lets you customize
signatures with
additional parameters.
There are many different
options available to use.
For instance, you can
set options to match
the content of a network packet
to detect malicious payloads.
Malicious payloads reside in
a packet's data and perform
malicious activity like
deleting or encrypting data.
Configuring rule options helps
in narrowing down
network traffic,
so you can find exactly
what you're looking for.
Typically, rule options
are separated by
semi-colons and enclosed
in parentheses.
In this example, we can examine
that the rule options
are enclosed in
a pair of parentheses and are
also separated with semi-colons.
The first rule option, msg,
which stands for message,
provides the alert's text.
In this case, the alert
will print out the text:
"This is a message."
There's also the option sid,
which stands for signature ID.
This attaches a unique
id to each signature.
The rev option
stands for revision.
Each time a signature
is updated or changed,
the revision number changes.
Here, the number 1 means
it's the first version
of the signature.
Great! Now you've
developed another skill in
your journey towards
becoming a security analyst:
how to read signatures.
There's so much more to
learn and coming up,
we'll discuss tools
that use signatures.